# Capacity_Management

This repository has Mathematica files that solve 1,2, and 3 period problems exactly, by going over extreme points of the mathematical problem described in our paper- 'Capacity management in a Pandemic' currently available at https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.05016. The problem and its solution methods are proved in the paper.
Folders for two and three period problems handle those problems respectively and the code CovidExpUpdated.nb solves the stationary problem i.e. the one period problem. The code clusterloop.nb solves the stationary problem for a range of capacity values. All these files can output their solutions in excel or tex files.  

The notebook PlottingGraphsForC_M.ipynb takes tex file inputs generated by Mathematica and produces tables/graphs for 1 or multi period problems.

The simulation code: (CovidSimulation_updated.ipynb notebook)
This code runs a Hospital system, by allowing patients with various severities to enter with a Poisson/constant rate and Poisson/constant service rate. 
It has various departments : Emergence Department (low and high priority queues), Clinic and a COVID special clinic. 
Patients enter each of these facilities randomly and based on their offer times, decide which facility they want to join. The patient severities may evolve with time, and they may leave and re-enter the hospital.
Finally, we can do a complete analysis of the system : How many patients left, with what severity and from which department, the distribution of their wait times, their service times etc.

Inputs : lambda, service rates
outputs : Analysis of the required component of the system (or full)
